# Code Book

## Analysis Steps

1. The dplyr and stringr libraries are loaded.
2. Each of the dataset files listed above in requirements are loaded into memory as data tables.
3. Each of the training and test files are concatenated by row to one file each (subject, x, and y)
4. The features and activity\_labels data tables are used to apply column names to the X (features) and Y (activities) data tables.
5. The subject, Y (activities) and X (features) tables are combined using column bind into one data table.
6. Grep is used to generate a subset of the data table for all columns that have mean() or std() in their name.  (Subject and Activity Label are included as well.)
7. The summary data set is generated by using the group\_by (Subject and Activity Label) and summarise\_each functions (mean of each column).
8. Abbrevations in column names are expanded to friendly names using the str\_replace\_all function.
9. The summary data set is exported to the working directory as "SamsungSummaryData.txt

## Variables

* SubDir - holds the name for the sub directory within the working directory that contains the UCI HAR Dataset.

* trainSubject - data table holding the value of subject\_train.txt
* trainX - data table holding the value of X\_train.txt
* trainY - data table holding the value of Y\_train.txt
* testSubject - data table holding the value of subject\_test.txt
* testX - data table holding the value of X\_test.txt
* testY - data table holding the value of Y\_test.txt

* subject - data table containing the concatenated rows of trainSubject and testSubject
* X - data table containing the concatenated rows of trainX and testX (features)
* Y - data table containing the concatenated rows of trainY and testY (activities)

* featureLabels - data table containing the contents of features.txt
* activityLabels - data table containing the contents of activity\_labels.txt
* activities - data table containing the merged contents of Y and activityLabels

* fullData - data table generated by concatenating subject, activities and X tables
* meanStdData - Extracted version of fullData that in addition to Subject and ActivityLabel columns only contains columns with mean(), std() in their name. 
* summaryData - Data Table derived calculating the mean value of all columns grouped by Subject and ActivityLabel.

## Friendly Column Names

Friendly column names were generated by expanding abbreviations as follows:
* t -> Time (only when ’t’ is the first character of a column name.)
* f -> Frequency (only when ‘f’ is the first character of a column name.)
* Gyro -> Gyroscope
* Acc -> Acceleration
* Mag -> Magnitude
* mean() -> Average
* std() -> StandardDeviation
